Add some MQTT design documentation (#26)
FreeRTOS/coreMQTT: docs/doxygen/pages.txt

/**
@page mqtt_design Design
@brief Architecture of the MQTT library.

This MQTT client library provides a fully synchronous implementation of the MQTT 3.1.1 standard, and uses only static memory.

@section mqtt_interfaces Interfaces and Callbacks

The MQTT library relies on interfaces to dissociate itself from platform specific areas,

> such as the transport layer or maintaining time. Interfaces used by MQTT are simply function signatures coupled

Author: Changed

with expectations of behavior.

> The MQTT library expects the following interfaces and callback functions:

Author: Removed

<table>
    <tr>
        <td><b>Function Pointer</b></td>
        <td><b>Use</b></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>@ref TransportRecv_t</td>
        <td>Receiving data from an established network connection.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>@ref TransportSend_t</td>
        <td>Sending data over an established network connection.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>@ref MQTTGetCurrentTimeFunc_t</td>
        <td>Obtaining timestamps for complying with user-specified timeouts and the MQTT keep-alive mechanism.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>@ref MQTTEventCallback_t</td>
        <td>Returning packets received from the network to the user after deserialization.</td>
    </tr>
</table>

@section mqtt_serializers Serializers and Deserializers

The managed MQTT API in @ref core_mqtt.h uses a set of serialization and deserialization functions
declared in @ref core_mqtt_lightweight.h These low-level functions are able to be used directly by

> a user who wishes to directly execute MQTT operations without any overhead from the managed API:

Author: Changed last sentence

- @ref mqtt_getpublishpacketsize_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_serializepublish_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_serializepublishheader_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_serializeack_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_getdisconnectpacketsize_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_serializedisconnect_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_getpingreqpacketsize_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_serializepingreq_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_deserializepublish_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_deserializeack_function <br>
- @ref mqtt_getincomingpackettypeandlength_function <br>

@section mqtt_sessions Sessions and State

The MQTT 3.1.1 protocol allows for a client and server to maintain persistent sessions, which
can be resumed after a reconnect. The elements of a session stored by this client library consist
of the states of incomplete publishes with Quality of Service levels of 1 (at least once), or 2 (exactly once).
These states are stored in the arrays @ref MQTTContext_t.outgoingPublishRecords and @ref MQTTContext_t.incomingPublishRecords;
the length of each of these arrays can be configured with @ref MQTT_STATE_ARRAY_MAX_COUNT.
This library does not store any subscription information, nor any information for QoS 0 publishes.

> When resuming a persistent session, the client library will resend PUBRELs for all PUBRECs had been received

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When resuming a persistent session, the client library will resend PUBRELs for all PUBRECs that had been received
```

Author: Changed

If a persistent session is resumed, then @ref mqtt_publishtoresend_function should be called to obtain the
packet identifiers of incomplete publishes, followed by a call to @ref mqtt_publish_function to resend the
unacknowledged publish.

@section mqtt_receivepackets Packet Reception

MQTT Packets are received from the network with calls to @ref mqtt_processloop_function or @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function. The functions are mostly identical,
with the exception of keep-alive; the former sends ping requests and processes ping responses to ensure the keep-alive interval does not expire, while the latter does not.
Since calls to @ref mqtt_publish_function, @ref mqtt_subscribe_function, and @ref mqtt_unsubscribe_function only send packets and do not
wait for acknowledgments, a call to @ref mqtt_processloop_function or @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function must follow in order to receive any expected acknowledgment.
The exception is @ref mqtt_connect_function; since a connection cannot be considered established until the server accepts a CONNECT packet with a CONNACK,
the function waits until the CONNACK is received.

@subsection mqtt_receivetimeout Timeouts

> @ref mqtt_connect_function, @ref mqtt_processloop_function, and @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function all accept timeout parameters for packet reception.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@ref mqtt_connect_function, @ref mqtt_processloop_function, and @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function all accept timeout parameters for packet reception.<br>
```

Author: Added

> For the connect function, if this value is set to 0, then instead of a time-based loop, it will attempt to call the transport receive function up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the @ref mqtt_connect_function, if this value is set to 0, then instead of a time-based loop, it will attempt to call the transport receive function up
```

Author: Changed

to a fixed maximum number of times, which is defined by @ref MQTT_MAX_CONNACK_RECEIVE_RETRY_COUNT.

> For the loop functions, the timeout value represents the <i>minimum</i> duration that will be spent in the function, provided there are no network errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For @ref mqtt_processloop_function and @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function, the timeout value represents the <i>minimum</i> duration that will be spent in the function, provided there are no network errors.
```

Author: Changed

Should the timeout be set to 0, then the loop will run for a single iteration. A single iteration of a loop consists of an attempt to receive a single byte from the network,
followed by the reception of the entire packet if the receive was successful, and finally deserialization of the packet received and a call to the application callback. If the first read did not succeed,

> then instead the library checks if a ping request needs to be sent (only for the process loop).

Reviewer: I made some plantUML diagrams for the operation of the loops:

MQTT_Connect():
```
@startuml

start
: Send CONNECT packet;
: count = 0;

repeat
	: Receive single byte;
repeat while (No network data AND \ncount < MQTT_MAX_CONNACK_RECEIVE_RETRY_COUNT) is (yes)
-> no or timeout == 0;

: Get rest of CONNACK packet;
: Deserialize CONNACK packet;
stop

@enduml
```

Process Loop:
```
@startuml

start

repeat
	: Receive single byte;
    if( success ) then (yes)
     	: Get rest of packet;
    	: Deserialize packet;
    else (no)
    	: Send ping request;
    endif

repeat while (**timeout** reached) is (no)
-> yes or timeout == 0;

stop

@enduml
```

ReceiveLoop:
```
@startuml

start

repeat
	: Receive single byte;
    if( success ) then (yes)
     	: Get rest of packet;
    	: Deserialize packet;
    else (no)
    endif

repeat while (**timeout** reached) is (no)
-> yes or timeout == 0;

stop

@enduml
```

can be resumed after a reconnect. The elements of a session stored by this client library consist
of the states of incomplete publishes with Quality of Service levels of 1 (at least once), or 2 (exactly once).
These states are stored in the arrays @ref MQTTContext_t.outgoingPublishRecords and @ref MQTTContext_t.incomingPublishRecords;
the length of each of these arrays can be configured with @ref MQTT_STATE_ARRAY_MAX_COUNT.
This library does not store any subscription information, nor any information for QoS 0 publishes.

When resuming a persistent session, the client library will resend PUBRELs for all PUBRECs that had been received
for incomplete outgoing QoS 2 publishes. If the broker does not resume the session, then all state information
in the client will be reset.

@note The library stores only the <i>state</i> of incomplete publishes and not the publishes themselves.
If a persistent session is resumed, then @ref mqtt_publishtoresend_function should be called to obtain the
packet identifiers of incomplete publishes, followed by a call to @ref mqtt_publish_function to resend the
unacknowledged publish.

@section mqtt_receivepackets Packet Reception

> MQTT Packets are received from the network with calls to @ref mqtt_processloop_function or @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function. The functions are mostly identical,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MQTT Packets are received from the network with calls to @ref mqtt_processloop_function or @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function. These functions are mostly identical,
```

> with the exception of keep-alive; the former sends ping requests and processes ping responses to ensure the keep-alive interval does not expire, while the latter does not.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with the exception of keep-alive; the former sends ping requests and processes ping responses to ensure the MQTT session does not remain idle for more than the keep-alive interval, while the latter does not.
```

Since calls to @ref mqtt_publish_function, @ref mqtt_subscribe_function, and @ref mqtt_unsubscribe_function only send packets and do not
wait for acknowledgments, a call to @ref mqtt_processloop_function or @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function must follow in order to receive any expected acknowledgment.

> The exception is @ref mqtt_connect_function; since a connection cannot be considered established until the server accepts a CONNECT packet with a CONNACK,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The exception is @ref mqtt_connect_function; since a MQTT session cannot be considered established until the server acknowledges a CONNECT packet with a CONNACK,
```

the function waits until the CONNACK is received.

@subsection mqtt_receivetimeout Timeouts

> @ref mqtt_connect_function, @ref mqtt_processloop_function, and @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function all accept timeout parameters for packet reception.<br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
@ref mqtt_connect_function, @ref mqtt_processloop_function, and @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function all accept timeout parameter for packet reception.<br>
```

Should the timeout be set to 0, then the loop will run for a single iteration. A single iteration of a loop consists of an attempt to receive a single byte from the network,
followed by the reception of the entire packet if the receive was successful, and finally deserialization of the packet received and a call to the application callback. If the first read did not succeed,
then instead the library checks if a ping request needs to be sent (only for the process loop).

See the below diagrams for a representation of the above flows:
| MQTT Connect Diagram | MQTT ProcessLoop Diagram | MQTT ReceiveLoop Diagram |
| :--: | :--: | :--: |
|<img src="mqtt_connect_design.png" alt="MQTT Connect" width=100% /> |<img src="mqtt_processloop_design.png" alt="MQTT Process Loop" width=100% /> |<img src="mqtt_receiveloop_design.png" alt="MQTT Receive Loop" width=100% /> |

@section mqtt_keepalive Keep-Alive

The MQTT standard specifies a keep-alive mechanism to detect half-open or otherwise unusable network connections.
An MQTT client will send periodic ping requests (PINGREQ) to the server if the connection is idle. The MQTT server must respond to ping requests with a ping response (PINGRESP).

> In this library, @ref mqtt_processloop_function handles the sending of PINGREQs and checking of PINGRESPs to comply with the keep-alive interval set in @ref MQTTContext_t.keepAliveIntervalSec.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this library, @ref mqtt_processloop_function handles sending of PINGREQs and processing corresponding PINGRESPs to comply with the keep-alive interval set in @ref MQTTContext_t.keepAliveIntervalSec.
```

> The standard does not specify how long the server has to respond to a ping request, noting only a "reasonable amount of time". In this library, the amount of time a server has to respond to a ping request is set with @ref MQTT_PINGRESP_TIMEOUT_MS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The standard does not specify the time duration within which the server has to respond to a ping request, noting only a "reasonable amount of time". If the response to a ping request is not received withtin @ref MQTT_PINGRESP_TIMEOUT_MS, this library assumes that the connection is dead.
```

> If @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function is used instead of @ref mqtt_processloop_function, then no such keep-alive checks are performed, and the application must ensure the keep-alive interval is obeyed by calling @ref mqtt_ping_function whenever control packets have not been sent for some period of time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If @ref mqtt_receiveloop_function is used instead of @ref mqtt_processloop_function, then no ping requests are sent. The application must ensure the connection does not remain idle for more than the keep-alive interval by calling @ref mqtt_ping_function to send ping requests.
```
